             remote sensing
Article
Improving Seismic Fault Recognition with Self-Supervised
Pre-Training: A Study of 3D Transformer-Based with Multi-Scale
Decoding and Fusion
Zeren Zhang † , Ran Chen † and Jinwen Ma *


                                         Department of Information and Computational Sciences, School of Mathematical Sciences, Peking University,
                                         Beijing 100871, China; eric_zhang@stu.pku.edu.cn (Z.Z.); chenran@stu.pku.edu.cn (R.C.)
                                         * Correspondence: jwma@math.pku.edu.cn
                                         † These authors contributed equally to this work.



                                         Abstract: Seismic fault interpretation holds great significance in the fields of geophysics and geology.
                                         However, conventional methods of seismic fault recognition encounter various issues. For example,
                                         models trained on synthetic data often exhibit inadequate generalization when applied to field
                                         seismic data, and supervised learning is heavily dependent on the quantity and quality of annotated
                                         data, being susceptible to the subjectivity of interpreters. To address these challenges, we propose
                                         applying self-supervised pre-training methods to seismic fault recognition, exploring the transfer of
                                         3D Transformer-based backbone networks and different pre-training methods on fault recognition
                                         tasks, thereby enabling the model to learn more powerful feature representations from extensive
                                         unlabeled datasets. Additionally, we propose an innovative pre-training strategy for the entire
                                         segmentation network based on the characteristics of seismic data and introduce a multi-scale
                                         decoding and fusion module that significantly improves recognition accuracy. Specifically, during
                                         the pre-training stage, we compare various self-supervision methods, like MAE, SimMIM, SimCLR,
                                         and a joint self-supervised learning approach. We adopt multi-scale decoding step-by-step fitting
                                         expansion targets during the fine-tuning stage. Ultimately merging features to refine fault edges, the
                                         model displays superior adaptability when handling narrow, elongated, and unevenly distributed
                                         fault annotations. Experiments demonstrate that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art
                                         performance on Thebe, the currently largest publicly annotated dataset in this field.
Citation: Zhang, Z.; Chen, R.; Ma, J.
Improving Seismic Fault Recognition
with Self-Supervised Pre-Training:
                                         Keywords: seismic faults detection; 3D segmentation; self-supervised; pre-training
A Study of 3D Transformer-Based
with Multi-Scale Decoding and
Fusion. Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs16050922       1. Introduction
                                         1.1. Background
Academic Editor: Shuying Li
                                               Seismic data obtained through reflection surveys represent an indirect depiction of the
Received: 4 February 2024                intricate physical structures within the Earth’s subsurface [1]. Three-dimensional seismic
Revised: 28 February 2024
                                         data offer a more detailed imaging and complex mapping of sub-surface structures than
Accepted: 4 March 2024
                                         2D because of denser sampling [2]. In 3D seismic images, geological strata create consistent
Published: 6 March 2024
                                         reflections, whereas faults, due to brittle deformation, cause reflection discontinuities [3,4].
                                         This contrast enables identifying and extracting geological features like strata and faults
                                         from the data. Seismic fault interpretation is crucial in geophysics and geology for tasks
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.        like stratigraphic analysis, examining ancient landscapes, reservoir characterization, well
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.       planning, resource assessment, and geological hazard risk mitigation [4–8].
This article is an open access article         Traditionally, manual and experiential seismic fault interpretation is susceptible to the
distributed under the terms and          influence of data quality and interpreter subjectivity [1,9]. Moreover, in large 3D seismic
conditions of the Creative Commons       images, identifying stratum and fault mapping is a time-consuming and labor-intensive
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://    process [3]. Various automated fault recognition methods are proposed in response to
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/         these limitations, including phase unwrapping [10,11], ant-tracking [12,13], waveform
4.0/).




Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs16050922                                       https://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                           2 of 25



                             classification [14], slope techniques [15], and Hough transform [16]. However, most feature-
                             based methods impose high computational costs and display susceptibility to noise [1].
                             These methods often require manual adjustment and heuristic parameter tuning to adapt
                             to different datasets.
                                   The emergence of machine learning [17] has spurred the advancement of intelligent
                             seismic fault recognition algorithms [18,19]. End-to-end fault recognition methods based
                             on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) frame fault recognition as a classification or
                             segmentation task [20–22]. Wu et al. [22] employed synthetic data to train an end-to-end
                             3D-Unet network named FaultSeg3D for fault recognition tasks. Furthermore, An et al. [23]
                             utilized a 2D segmentation network, Mobile DeepLabV3+, for per-pixel segmentation to
                             extract faults and introduced Thebe, the largest currently publicly available field seismic
                             fault dataset. However, existing models trained on small synthetic datasets demonstrate
                             performance degradation and limited generalization when applied to field seismic data.
                             This is due to the heavy reliance on supervised deep learning on accurate annotations.
                             Consequently, these models need improvement in dealing with data with significant feature
                             variations, quality issues, high annotation costs, and subjectivity.

                             1.2. Related Work
                                  Transformer [24] models, which rely on attention mechanisms, have advantages over
                             CNNs in capturing global context information and obtaining full-scale features. Self-
                             supervised learning methods using the Transformer structure, such as Vision Transformer
                             (ViT) [25], show excellent performance across various visual tasks. Additionally, the Swin-
                             Transformer [26], optimized through hierarchical and sliding window strategies, further
                             enhances the performance of the ViT. On the other hand, masked autoencoders (MAEs) [27]
                             demonstrate commendable image understanding capabilities through self-supervised
                             learning. The simplified mask image modeling (SimMIM) [28], tailored specifically for
                             the Swin-Transformer, uses a straightforward masked image modeling (MIM) approach,
                             a lightweight decoder, and a more adaptable token processing mechanism, making it
                             well-suited for downstream tasks requiring multi-scale modeling. As a self-supervised
                             technique that learns similarities in data through contrastive learning, a simple framework
                             for contrastive learning of representations (SimCLR) [29] also demonstrates significant
                             competitiveness in image understanding tasks.
                                  Seismic data processing tasks are now increasingly utilizing self-supervised learning
                             techniques, such as seismic velocity inversion, stratigraphic phase semantic segmentation,
                             seismic data denoising, etc. [30–32], which demonstrates the applicability of self-supervised
                             pre-training methods in seismic data feature extraction. However, only a few studies
                             apply the Transformer framework to fault recognition tasks. Yang et al. [33] presented
                             a multitask learning network capable of simultaneous stratigraphy extraction and fault
                             detection. They utilized Transformer architecture for stratigraphy estimation, fortifying the
                             model’s robustness with expert geological interpretation. Tang et al. [34] proposed a novel
                             method that amalgamates the Unet architecture with a Transformer encoder for 2.5D fault
                             detection. The model, trained on synthetic datasets, demonstrates superior performance on
                             the Netherlands F3 dataset [35] compared to the complete 3D Unet model. The Dual Unet
                             with Transformer model proposed by Wang et al. [36] combines the traditional U-Net with
                             the Transformer U-Net, and they found that the binary cross-entropy loss (BCE) performed
                             best after comparing six different loss functions. Finally, FaultSSL [37] is a semi-supervised
                             fault recognition framework. Its supervised learning component uses synthetic data and
                             a small number of 2D label data, while the unsupervised learning component relies on
                             two proxy tasks—PaNning Consistency (PNC) and PaTching Consistency (PTC). The
                             approach reduces the reliance on synthetic data and purely supervised learning methods
                             but still needs a certain amount of labeled data support. In summary, recent research
                             has made progress in applying the Transformer architecture to solve fault recognition
                             problems. However, training on synthetic datasets limits the generalization of field datasets.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                           3 of 25



                             Although the potential advantages of semi-supervised learning have been preliminarily
                             explored, more quantitative evaluations are still needed.

                             1.3. Motivation
                                   As previously discussed, seismic fault recognition technology has evolved signifi-
                             cantly, transitioning from traditional manual interpretation to advanced deep learning
                             models. Despite these advancements, supervised learning models, heavily dependent on
                             accurate labeling, exhibit limitations when processing field seismic data. In response to
                             these limitations, self-supervised learning has become a powerful solution to compensate
                             for the limitations of supervised learning. However, applying the Transformer framework
                             in fault recognition tasks and using self-supervised learning methods within this context
                             are still largely undeveloped, and the resulting performance has yet to reach the expected
                             level. Consequently, this study explores the potential gains of using self-supervised pre-
                             training methods in seismic fault recognition. We adopt a 3D Transformer-based backbone
                             network, and during the pre-training phase, we conduct a detailed exploration of various
                             self-supervised pre-training techniques, including MAE, SimMIM, and SimCLR, allowing
                             the model to learn more robust feature representations from large-scale unlabeled data.
                             Our findings reveal that combining the Swin UNEt TRansformer (Swin-UNETR) [38] back-
                             bone with the SimMIM pre-training task significantly enhances seismic fault recognition
                             capabilities. We specially design our model architecture to handle the complexity inherent
                             in seismic fault recognition patterns. Considering the sparse distribution features of seismic
                             fault data, we innovatively improve the Swin-UNETR architecture, realizing multi-scale
                             decoding and fusion. Furthermore, our findings reveal that the Swin-UNETR model’s
                             decoder has significantly more parameters than its backbone network, which suggests that
                             pre-training the entire segmentation model can further enhance fault detection accuracy.
                             Our method, referred to as FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, demonstrates excellent adaptability and
                             precision in detecting seismic faults.

                             2. Datasets
                                  In their comprehensive 2023 review on fault recognition [39], An and colleagues
                             synthesized information from 73 seismic datasets, of which only three field datasets and
                             four synthetic datasets open-sourced seismic data and labels, providing a public baseline
                             for research. Only two open-sourced datasets with annotations are 3D, including the
                             synthetic dataset FaultSeg [22] created by Wu and the field dataset Thebe [23] collected by
                             An’s team. FaultSeg simulates seismic signal patterns, providing detailed explanations and
                             opening its dataset and code. Although synthetic datasets can partially reduce the reliance
                             on expert annotations, the quality difference of synthetic data significantly influences the
                             model’s performance when dealing with practical data. When choosing the dataset type,
                             researchers must consider that the ultimate purpose of all models is to solve real earthquake
                             data-related problems. Hence, testing the model’s performance through field earthquake
                             datasets is a straightforward approach to gauging its performance. Currently, the Thebe
                             dataset is the largest publicly available earthquake fault dataset, providing many detailed
                             pixel-level expert annotations, allowing researchers to compare the performance of different
                             models more accurately and identify their advantages and limitations.

                             2.1. Datasets Employed
                                  Earthquake fault recognition models trained with data from actual work areas can
                             fully understand and handle the complexity and uniqueness of field earthquake data. Such
                             models have better generalization abilities than models trained on simulated datasets.
                             They can adapt to varying conditions and maintain high accuracy even when encountering
                             previously unseen data. Therefore, considering the practical applicability of seismic fault
                             recognition models, our approach primarily relies on seismic data obtained from actual
                             working areas. Specifically, we use a large number of unlabeled private data for pre-training.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                 4 of 25



                             Then, we fine-tune it on the labeled field dataset Thebe and verify the model’s effectiveness
                             on both the publicly available synthetic dataset FaultSeg and the field dataset Thebe.
                             •    Synthetic dataset
                                  A synthetic dataset was used in the earliest work using deep learning methods for
                                  fault recognition [22]. This dataset consists of 220 seismic volumes of 128 × 128 × 128
                                  and corresponding fault labels. The training set slice images are depicted in Figure 1.




                             Figure 1. Three-dimensional visual examples of the synthetic dataset. A synthetic seismic image of
                             the synthetic dataset and the corresponding true fault image (with labeling ones on faults and zeros
                             elsewhere) is overlaid with the seismic image.

                             •    Field dataset
                                  Most relevant works on fault recognition are trained on this synthetic dataset and
                                  then qualitatively analyzed on field fault datasets. However, deep learning methods
                                  typically require much training data to mitigate overfitting. Deep networks are prone
                                  to learning patterns specific to the synthetic data, which may not apply to real-world
                                  scenarios. Therefore, during the fine-tuning process, we conducted significant experi-
                                  ments using Thebe [40], the currently largest publicly available seismic faults dataset.
                                  The dataset, originally from a seismic survey called Thebe Gas Field in the Exmouth
                                  Plateau of the Carnarvan Basin on the NW shelf of Australia, is represented in Python
                                  Numpy format. The Thebe dataset has a size of 1803 × 1537 × 3174. Because of the
                                  high correlation between adjacent slices, random partitioning along the crossline or
                                  inline direction was not a reasonable choice. Following the approach proposed by
                                  An et al. [40], we divided the data along the crossline direction. The first 900 slices
                                  were used for training, the next 200 for validation, and the remaining 703 for testing.
                                  The 640 × 640 × 640 cube segmented from the Thebe dataset is depicted in Figure 2.
                                  A comparison between Figures 1 and 2 reveals that the field seismic data are compara-
                                  tively more complex than the synthetic seismic data. The field seismic dataset exhibits
                                  a more intricate fault distribution and finer fault annotation lines, making transferring
                                  the model trained on synthetic data to field data challenging.
                             •    Pre-training dataset
                                  In addition, as self-supervised pre-training does not require annotations, we collected
                                  private datasets from 15 different working areas for pre-training tasks. These datasets
                                  are diverse in their geological features and size, and notably, they all lack fault annota-
                                  tions. Our goal was for the network to independently discover and learn the intrinsic
                                  characteristics of fault data across various contexts from various working areas during
                                  the self-supervised learning phase. We visualize some of the data used for pre-training
                                  in Figure 3.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                 5 of 25




                             Figure 2. Three-dimensional visual examples of the Thebe dataset. A synthetic seismic image is
                             cropped from the Thebe dataset, and the corresponding true fault image (with labeling ones on faults
                             and zeros elsewhere) is overlaid with the cropped seismic image.




                             Figure 3. Three-dimensional visual examples of the pre-training dataset. The figure illustrates
                             128 × 128 × 128 segmentations from the pre-training datasets of various working areas.

                             2.2. Data Processing
                                  To ensure consistency during training and comparability during predictions of seismic
                             data, we initially performed z-score standardization on the data. Assuming S represents
                             the original three-dimensional seismic data and µ and σ respectively denote its mean and
                             standard deviation, we utilized Equation (1) to standardize the original data.

                                                                                     S−µ
                                                                   Sstandardized =                                            (1)
                                                                                      σ
                             These preprocessing steps prevent data from being overly concentrated or dispersed, miti-
                             gating the influence of varying feature scales. This enhances the stability and convergence
                             speed of the model, facilitating a more straightforward acquisition of fault distribution char-
                             acteristics. The distributions of standardized fault data and annotated data are illustrated
                             in Figure 4. The Thebe dataset is publicly available. Expert interpreters from the Fault
                             Analysis Group at University College Dublin manually labeled the faults in the seismic
                             data. Because of the slanted nature of the work area, preprocessing involved creating a
                             bounding rectangle to form a 3D cube and filling in blank areas with zeros. This resulted
                             in a higher kurtosis for the Thebe dataset than synthetic and field data typically used
                             for pre-training, which usually resemble a normal distribution. The field seismic cube
                             shows skewness, with many zeros and near-zero values, making its distribution notably
                             different from the synthetic and pre-training data. Therefore, fine-tuning post-pre-training
                             on unlabeled datasets was crucial to addressing these distributional discrepancies.
                                  Figure 5a is a histogram showing the statistical distribution of 0–1 fault labels for
                             10,000 data points randomly sampled from the Thebe and synthetic datasets; on the x-axis,
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                   6 of 25



                             False represents non-fault points, i.e., points with a label of 0, while True represents fault
                             points, i.e., points with a label of 1. The y-axis represents the total number of voxel points
                             with a label of 0 or 1 in different datasets. It reveals substantial label imbalance, where
                             fault annotations are significantly fewer than non-fault annotations. The field dataset,
                             in particular, exhibits a more pronounced imbalance, making fault interpretation tasks
                             more challenging. Consequently, models trained on synthetic datasets demonstrate limited
                             feature extraction capabilities when applied to field datasets. Figure 5b displays the
                             distribution of fault and non-fault points after merging the Thebe and synthetic datasets.
                             The distinct difference in fault distribution between the synthetic and the Thebe datasets
                             highlights the crucial significance of the model’s simultaneous learning to identify seismic
                             fault and non-fault features.




                             Figure 4. The amplitude distribution of seismic datasets after z-score standardization.




                                                  (a)                                                      (b)
                             Figure 5. (a) The distribution of labels in synthetic seismic data and field seismic data exhibiting a
                             0–1 distribution. (b) Labels distribution of faults and non-faults after merging synthetic and
                             field datasets.

                                  Figure 6 is a boxplot of the data distribution. The values on the vertical axis represent
                             the seismic data values after z-score normalization. The False part on the left shows the
                             distribution of non-fault data for Thebe and synthetic data, and the True part on the right
                             shows fault data. The distribution of non-fault data in Thebe on the far left even loses
                             the shape of the box because of the over-concentration of zero values and includes many
                             outliers, in which the maximum outlier even reaches a positive 12.5. However, the synthetic
                             data values are evenly distributed on both sides of the 0 axis after standardization. The an-
                             notation of fault data is relatively uniform, with both Thebe, in blue, and the synthetic
                             data, in orange, being standard and symmetrical. The boxplot vividly illustrates the highly
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                    7 of 25



                             concentrated distribution of non-fault points within the Thebe dataset and the considerable
                             presence of outliers. This challenges the model, potentially leading to biases toward specific
                             features or regions during training, neglecting other crucial information. Such biases can
                             impede the model’s comprehensive understanding of geological structures.




                             Figure 6. The boxplots of fault and non-fault data in the Thebe dataset and synthetic dataset.

                                  Additionally, random flipping, 90-degree random rotations, and random cropping
                             are common data augmentation techniques in the computer vision domain. They expand
                             the training dataset, enabling the model to learn diverse features better. Random cropping
                             effectively extracts feature information of different scales and positions, bolstering the
                             model’s generalization ability. Random flipping and 90-degree random rotations aid
                             the model in learning features from various orientations, enhancing its robustness. This
                             combination of techniques augments the model’s capability to extract seismic data features
                             and generalizability, bolstering its effectiveness and stability in real-world applications.

                             3. Seismic Fault Recognition with Self-Supervised Pre-Training
                                  Inspired by successful self-supervised pre-training schemes in image processing, we
                             explored various pre-training tasks on a large volume of unlabeled seismic field data
                             using 3D Transformer-based backbones. These backbones include U-Net TRansformers
                             (UNETR) [41] and Swin-UNETR, with pre-training strategies comprising MAE, SimMIM,
                             SimCLR, as well as three joint self-supervised tasks used in [38]: masked volume inpainting,
                             image rotation, and contrastive coding. Following this pre-training phase, the network
                             learned rich features within the seismic domain. We fine-tuned and tested it on field
                             datasets, discovering that the strategy combining Swin-UNETR with SimMIM yields the
                             best results. Building on this insight, to address challenges such as the scarcity of seismic
                             fault data and the narrow and uneven distribution of seismic faults, we further refined
                             the Swin-UNETR model. We propose a full-network pre-training scheme named FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR specifically for seismic fault segmentation tasks. We observe a notable
                             disparity between the size of parameters in the backbone network and the decoder head
                             of Swin-UNETR. To address this, we employed full-network self-supervised pre-training
                             with SimMIM, which achieved better outcomes. Additionally, we found that introducing
                             multi-scale decoding and fusion modules significantly enhanced identification precision.
                             Section 3.1 introduces the backbone network and pre-training schemes, while Section 3.2
                             discusses the full-network pre-training of FaultSeg Swin-UNETR.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                          8 of 25



                             3.1. Backbone and Pre-Training Methods
                             3.1.1. 3D Transformer-Based Backbone
                                  Our research uses a Transformer-based model, different from many past studies that
                             used CNNs [23,42], for fault recognition in seismic images. It is adept at capturing multi-
                             scale contexts and managing tasks that require understanding long-distance relationships,
                             which is crucial for segmenting images by pixel relationships. Because of the difficulty
                             of annotating seismic faults, it is common for researchers to annotate faults slice by slice
                             along a specific direction (inline or crossline) within a particular working area. Therefore,
                             previous studies often used 2D segmentation networks for fault recognition, but these
                             could not capture the full spatial context of seismic faults. While 2.5D data have been
                             employed to address this partially, proper integration of 3D spatial information necessitates
                             a 3D segmentation network. Therefore, our model uses a 3D Transformer backbone as the
                             main network.
                                  UNETR and Swin-UNETR [38], as classic 3D Transformer-based frameworks, redefine
                             the task of 3D cube fault recognition as a sequence-to-sequence prediction problem. These
                             architectures divide the input 3D seismic image into volumetric patches. Each patch is
                             linearly embedded and then processed through a series of Transformer or Swin-Transformer
                             blocks, enabling the models to learn rich, context-aware data representations. UNETR
                             combines the architecture of U-Net with the advantages of Transformers and typically
                             features an encoder–decoder structure: the encoder utilizes Transformer blocks to capture
                             global context information, while the decoder employs conventional convolutional layers
                             to reconstruct the segmentation output of seismic faults intricately. Swin-UNETR builds
                             upon the UNETR concept but incorporates the Swin-Transformer as its backbone. “Swin”
                             in Swin-Transformer stands for “shifted window”, a novel attention mechanism that
                             adopts a window-based approach to handle local information in images better. As shown
                             in Figure 7, the Swin-Transformer consists of multiple Swin blocks. In Swin-UNETR,
                             the Swin-Transformer’s shifted windowing approach is adapted to handle 3D images,
                             allowing the model to dynamically adjust its focus between smaller, local areas and the
                             broader global context. This mechanism provides a more nuanced understanding of the
                             spatial relationships within volumetric data, which is crucial for accurate segmentation
                             and analysis in seismic imaging. For more details about Swin-Transformer, please refer
                             to Appendix A.




                             Figure 7. Architecture of 3D Swin-Transformer backbone.

                             3.1.2. Self-Supervised Pre-Training of Seismic Data
                                   We collected many unlabeled field seismic data, covering many scenarios. In order
                             to explore the potential information within seismic data, we compare several mainstream
                             self-supervised pre-training methods, including MAE, SimMIM, SimCLR, and the masked
                             volume inpainting, image rotation, and contrastive coding implemented within the Swin-
                             UNETR architecture. MAE and SimMIM focus on improving the model’s prediction
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                         9 of 25



                             capabilities for masked parts within the data, thereby strengthening the model’s overall
                             understanding of seismic data. Meanwhile, SimCLR enhances the model’s ability to
                             discriminate between different seismic features via contrastive learning. Masked volume
                             inpainting trains the model on how to infer the overall structure from partially visible
                             seismic data; image rotation compels the model to learn the direction invariance of seismic
                             images; contrastive coding encourages the model to identify and understand the differences
                             and similarities within different parts of the images. Our goal was to comprehensively
                             evaluate the applicability of each method in the field of earthquakes to determine which
                             method performs better on seismic datasets.

                             3.2. FaultSeg Swin-UNETR
                                  This research introduces FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, a self-supervised pre-training model
                             for seismic fault segmentation based on Transformer. This model innovatively combines
                             the Swin-UNETR architecture with the SimMIM pre-training method, optimizes the uneven
                             distribution of parameters through full-network pre-training, and incorporates multi-scale
                             decoding fusion modules to adapt to the peculiarities of seismic data.

                             3.2.1. Full-Network Pre-Training
                                  Our findings highlight that the Swin-UNETR backbone, particularly when combined
                             with the SimMIM pre-training strategy, outperforms traditional tasks like masked volume
                             inpainting, image rotation, and contrastive coding in terms of earthquake fault recog-
                             nition capability. This empirical evidence led us to adopt the Swin-UNETR backbone
                             in conjunction with the SimMIM pre-training approach in our proposed FaultSeg Swin-
                             UNETR method.
                                  Figure 8 illustrates the workflow of using SimMIM in seismic data. Given a fixed
                             size (128 × 128 × 128) seismic dataset, it was first divided into 262,144 non-overlapping
                             patches of size 2 × 2 × 2. After specifying a mask ratio (usually 75%), a random portion
                             of the seismic data was masked from these 262,144 patches to serve as the input for the
                             backbone network, Swin-Transformer. However, it is not reasonable to randomly mask
                             overly dense patches, as it would make the reconstruction task more similar to a super-
                             resolution task. Therefore, we adopted the strategy of simulating larger patch sizes in ViT,
                             where during random masking, we simulated the effect of 16 × 16 × 16 large patches on
                             2 × 2 × 2 small patches. In the specific implementation, after the image was divided into
                             patches, it could go through a tokenization module to convert it into tokens inputted to
                             the Transformer. The masking operation was then performed on these tokens (Figure 8
                             optional branch). Consider the 3D seismic dataset represented by S. The formulation for
                             the masking operation can be elegantly expressed as Equation (2).

                                  MaskedInput = PE(Tokenization(S) ⊙ M + Repeat(MaskToken) ⊙ (1 − M))                 (2)

                             Herein, Tokenization(·) represents the operator that segments the input seismic data into
                             blocks and then projects them into tokens that can be accepted by the Swin-Transformer.
                             PE(·) denotes the application of positional embeddings to introduce spatial awareness.
                             The term M represents a masking matrix, which is designed to obscure a random 75%
                             of the input tokens, thereby facilitating a robust learning process. MaskToken, a tunable
                             parameter, serves to supplant the elements obscured by the mask, thus preserving the
                             integrity of the data’s structural composition. After inputting the masked tokens into
                             the Transformer, they went through its internal self-attention mechanism. Afterward, we
                             obtained a feature map with a smaller spatial size at the output. We needed a simple
                             upsampling network (composed of transpose convolutions) to upsample it to the same
                             size as the input. Then, through the same patch-based masking operation, we calculated
                             the l1 loss between the masked regions and the original input. Despite the difficulty
                             of annotating earthquake data, collecting it was relatively easier. This made it possible
                             to perform SimMIM on many unlabeled seismic data. Compared to using pre-trained
                             backbone networks for supervised tasks such as classification, segmentation, and object
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                         10 of 25



                             detection on natural scene data (such as Imagenet, COCO), directly using earthquake data
                             for self-supervised learning could learn the essential features of the seismic domain, making
                             it easier and more accurate in the downstream fine-tuning process.




                             Figure 8. Overview of simplified mask image modeling.

                                  Furthermore, we found a significant disparity in parameter proportion between the
                             backbone network and the segmentation decoder network in the Swin-UNETR network
                             used for seismic fault segmentation. This mainly arose from using the self-attention mecha-
                             nism in the Swin-Transformer, resulting in far fewer parameters than the 3D convolutional
                             layers in the segmentation decoder. Specifically, the parameter size of the Swin-Transformer
                             backbone network is only one-eighth of the total parameter size of the segmentation net-
                             work (see Table 1). This design contradicts the ideas of many self-supervised pre-training
                             models. Generally, in self-supervised pre-training frameworks, the parameter size of the
                             backbone network is much larger than that of the decoding heads of downstream tasks.
                             The backbone network mainly accomplishes the learning of input data features, and it is
                             preferable to have a simple design for the decoding heads. In light of these observations, we
                             propose an innovative shift in strategy. Rather than confining the self-supervised learning
                             task, such as SimMIM, to merely a network component, we advocate for utilizing the
                             entire Swin-UNETR structure, including both the backbone and the segmentation head,
                             for self-supervised pre-training. This method is particularly suitable for the inherently
                             image-to-image nature of most seismic-related downstream tasks. To some extent, it can
                             solve the problem of unreasonable parameter settings when Swin-UNETR integrates the
                             Unit architecture. The original self-supervised pre-training method of Swin-UNETR only
                             focuses on the model’s backbone and needs to fully explore the potential of unlabeled
                             data. Our training strategy not only allows the decoder to learn prior information from a
                             large number of unlabeled data during the pre-training stage but also ensures that this pre-
                             training information can be fully utilized in FaultSeg Swin-UNETR through the parameter
                             replication of the three decoder heads downstream tasks.
                                  Consequently, we engaged in extensive pre-training of the complete Swin-UNETR
                             network on a vast corpus of seismic fault data. In response to this situation, we made
                             certain modifications to the input processing. We performed patching and masking opera-
                             tions directly on the seismic data at the input stage, in contrast to the typical approach of
                             manipulating tokens post the patch embedding layer. This reimagined strategy addresses
                             the parameter distribution challenge and aligns more congruently with the intrinsic require-
                             ments of seismic fault recognition tasks. This direct masking operation on the input seismic
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                             11 of 25



                             S can be described by Equation (3), where Fpatch (·) denotes the operation of segmenting
                             the input into patches and M represents the mask matrix.

                                         MaskedInput = Fpatch (S) ⊙ M + Repeat(MaskPatch) ⊙ (1 − M).                        (3)

                             Additionally, the dimension of MaskPatch is also smaller than that of MaskToken. This
                             approach is more in line with the original design of SimMIM. It allows the backbone
                             network and decoder to learn some essential features from unlabeled data during the
                             pre-training phase. The goal of the SimMIM pre-training task is to reconstruct masked
                             seismic data. The learning objective for the task is

                                                         LSimMI M = ∥M ⊙ (Sreconstruct − S)∥1 .                             (4)

                             During the pre-training phase, the network starts learning from weights initialized ran-
                             domly. The chosen optimizer is AdamW, and a cosine annealing learning rate decay
                             strategy is employed.

                             Table 1. Parameters of the Swin-Transformer-based model.

                                                Model Name                        Backbone     Decode Head     Total Params
                                     Swin-Transformer + Up Sample Net               7.8 M          3.1 M           10.9 M
                                               Swin-UNETR                           7.8 M         54.1 M          61.9 M
                                           FaultSeg Swin-UNETR                      7.8 M         93.3 M          101.1 M


                             3.2.2. Multi-Scale Decoding and Fusion Module
                                  Figure 9 illustrates the segmentation network FaultSeg Swin-UNETR that we designed
                             for fault recognition. Based on our findings, earthquake faults are typically narrow and
                             account for a deficient proportion, resulting in a serious class imbalance issue in training
                             targets. In order to alleviate this phenomenon, we use multiple segmentation decoders to
                             learn from fault segments that have been expanded at different levels. Specifically, let us
                             assume our annotated samples are {S j , Fj } N                   128×128×128 represents the input
                                                                          j=1 , where S j ∈ R
                             seismic and Fj ∈ {0, 1}128×128×128 represents the corresponding labeled faults. The Swin-
                             Transformer encodes the input seismic and then decodes it separately by three segmentation
                             decoders. These three decoders need to learn seismic faults that have been expanded by
                             1x, 3x, and 5x, respectively. Our main loss function is defined as Equation (5), where
                             Dilate( Fj , 2i − 1) represents the j-th labeled faults Fj after being dilated 2i − 1 times using
                             the dilation operator, and Decodei,j = Decoderi (Backbone(S j )) represents the predicted
                             dilated fault result of seismic sample Si after passing through the j-th decoder of FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR. We conceptualize fault identification as a per-pixel binary classification
                             problem for 3D seismic data, thereby configuring the loss function as binary cross-entropy
                             (BCE) loss. The design of the main loss function is employed to supervise the three
                             decoding branches of our FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, enabling them to independently learn
                             the annotated fault information after being dilated at three different scales. Afterward,
                             to restore the original fault body, we introduce a fusion module that re-calibrates the
                             fault bodies learned from the three branches to their original thickness. The fusion module
                             consists of a series of 3D convolutions. The three predictions of dilated faults {Decodei,j }3i=1
                             are concatenated along the channel dimension and passed through the fusion module. We
                             define the fusion loss function as Equation (6), where Fusion(·) denotes the fusion layer
                             we designed, and Cat(·) represents the concatenation operator. Given that the decoded
                             outputs Decodei,j ∈ R H ×W × D are three-dimensional, we extend an additional dimension to
                             the predicted results {Decodei,j }3i=1 from the three decoding heads and concatenate them
                             along this new dimension, resulting in Cat( Decode1,j , Decode2,j , Decode3,j ) ∈ R H ×W × D×3 .
                             Since the fusion module is designed solely to learn how to restore the expanded fault
                             body during gradient backpropagation, we disconnect it from the main segmentation
                             network. The fusion loss function L f usion does not participate in the updates of the main
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                               12 of 25



                             network. The total loss is composed of a weighted combination of the losses from two parts
                             (Equation (7)), where λ is used to adjust the strength of the supervisory signal between the
                             backbone network of FaultSeg Swin-UNETR and its fusion module.

                                                   1 3 N
                                                  3N i∑  ∑ BCE(Decodei,j , Dilate( Fj , 2i − 1))
                                        Lmain =                                                                              (5)
                                                      =1 j =1

                                                      1 N
                                                      N j∑
                                        L f usion =         BCE(Fusion(Cat( Decode1,j , Decode2,j , Decode3,j )), Fj )       (6)
                                                         =1

                                        Ltotal = Lmain + λL f usion                                                          (7)

                                   The redesigned FaultSeg Swin-UNETR network can learn fault features more easily.
                             It is worth noting that after pre-training with Swin-UNETR on SimMIM, we can create
                             three copies of the parameters of the decoder part to initialize the weights of FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR. This allows us to leverage the prior knowledge obtained from pre-training in
                             the seismic fault domain, speeding up network convergence and improving recognition ac-
                             curacy. In the finetuning phase, we start from the weights obtained during self-supervised
                             pre-training. We continue to use the AdamW optimizer and employ a cosine annealing
                             learning rate decay strategy to gradually decrease the learning rate, ensuring the conver-
                             gence of the network.




                             Figure 9. The architecture of the FaultSeg Swin-UNETR network.

                             4. Experimental Results and Analysis
                                  This section introduced the experiments conducted and the results obtained. Section 4.1
                             details the evaluation metrics used for fault recognition tasks. Section 4.2 describes the
                             training details of our algorithm. Finally, Sections 4.3 and 4.4 provide a detailed discussion
                             of the results and an ablation study.

                             4.1. Evaluation Metrics
                                  Fault recognition is a typical binary segmentation task; therefore, classic classification
                             task metrics such as precision, recall, and F1 score can be used to measure the model’s
                             performance. However, evaluating the model solely based on precision or recall is not
                             reasonable because of the low proportion of real earthquake faults. Therefore, following
                             the work of An et al. [23], we use the per-image best threshold (OIS) and fixed contour
                             threshold (ODS) metrics, calculated based on the F1 score, to assess the performance of
                             the model. In the case of deep segmentation networks, the output is a 3D score volume
                             with logits of the same size as the input seismic data. After applying the sigmoid activation
                             function, the output is a 3D score volume ranging from 0 to 1. To calculate the OIS
                             and ODS, the seismic faults in the test set are considered as multiple images along the
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                            13 of 25



                             crossline, i = 1, 2, ..., N. The F1 score is computed for the network’s output score volume at
                             100 different thresholds. The best threshold is then selected either per image or for the entire
                             volume to evaluate the model’s performance. In this context, let us denote the model’s
                             output score as Ypred and the ground truth labels for the faults as GT. Both Ypred and GT
                             are represented as 3D volumes with dimensions H × W × D. The evaluation metrics, OIS
                             and ODS, are defined by the following equations (refer to Equation (8)):
                                                                                                               100 !
                                                         1 N
                                                                     
                                                                                             j
                                                        N i∑
                                             OIS =            max      F1 Ypred [i, :, :] >     , GT [i, :, :]
                                                           =1
                                                                                            100                    j =1
                                                            (                                                    )100   (8)
                                                                    N                                          
                                                                 1                            j
                                                                 N i∑
                                            ODS = max                 F1 Ypred [i, :, :] >      , GT [i, :, :]         
                                                                    =1
                                                                                            100
                                                                                                        j =1

                             The formulations reveal that ODS, which determines the optimal threshold across the entire
                             dataset, typically yields a value less than or equal to OIS. The latter metric computes the op-
                             timal threshold for each individual slice. Consequently, ODS offers a more comprehensive
                             assessment of the model’s efficacy across the whole seismic dataset.

                             4.2. Training and Validation
                                   Regarding the datasets from Thebe and our collection, we divided the entire dataset
                             into smaller chunks because of its large size. During the self-supervised stage, we used
                             a patch size of 128 × 128 × 128 and a stride of 64 × 64 × 64 for chunking. Since we
                             applied random masking to the input to the network each time, we did not perform
                             excessive data augmentation. Instead, we only normalized each chunk of data by adjusting
                             its mean to 0 and standard deviation to 1, making it easier for the neural network to
                             process. During the fine-tuning stage, we divided the Thebe data into blocks of size
                             256 × 256 × 256 with a corresponding stride of 128 × 128 × 128. Before inputting each
                             data block into the segmentation network, we applied random flips, random rotations by
                             90 degrees, and random cropping of seismic data from the blocks of size 256 × 256 × 256 to
                             128 × 128 × 128.
                                   Additionally, we performed data normalization and other data augmentation oper-
                             ations. We utilized the slide window inference technique during the inference stage to
                             generate predictions for the entire work area. This involved predicting a volume of size
                             128 × 128 × 128 at a time, with a sliding stride of 64 × 64 × 64. We calculated the average
                             values in overlapping regions to address inconsistent predicted results at the boundaries.
                             This choice of data augmentation method helped effectively mitigate the issue of incon-
                             sistent predictions at the junctions. The code for the entire pre-training and fine-tuning
                             tasks was implemented using PyTorch 1.12.1 and accelerated using 4 × 4 NVIDIA A100
                             GPUs supported by the High-performance Computing Platform of Peking University.
                             Because of memory limitations, we set the batch size for all tasks to two. The SimMIM
                             self-supervised pre-training for the backbone network Swin-Transformer and the whole
                             segmentation network Swin-UNETR was trained for 300 epochs. During the fine-tuning
                             stage, all Transformer-based models ran for 100 epochs.

                             4.3. Results
                                  Table 2 shows the OIS and ODS performance indicators of our FaultSeg Swin-UNETR
                             model on the Thebe dataset. We primarily compare our results with An’s work [42]. In that
                             study, they found that the DeeplabV3 segmentation network pre-trained on ImageNet with
                             ResNet-101 performed the best and even surpassed the foundational work of FaultSeg in 3D
                             fault detection. Our experimental results show that our end-to-end SimMIM pre-training
                             FaultSeg Swin-UNETR surpasses previous methods in both indicators, improving by at
                             least 0.25 points compared to An’s state-of-the-art work. In this section, we delve into
                             the motivations behind the design of FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, validate the effectiveness
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                        14 of 25



                             of various pre-training strategies through a series of experiments, and confirm that every
                             technique we propose significantly improves the detection accuracy of seismic faults.
                                   Our research used UNETR and Swin-UNETR based on the 3D Transformer architecture
                             as backbone networks. We conducted experiments on several self-supervised pre-training
                             tasks, including MAE, SimMIM, SimCLR, and the masked volume inpainting, image
                             rotation, and contrastive coding implemented within the Swin-UNETR. The results show
                             that even in the absence of self-supervised pre-training, the performance of UNETR and
                             Swin-UNETR is superior to the traditional 3D convolutional network-based FaultSeg3D,
                             emphasizing the effectiveness of the combined Transformer and U-Net architecture for
                             seismic fault segmentation tasks. However, the performance of the Swin-UNETR model
                             without pre-training is similar to that of UNETR and needs improvement. Both backbone
                             and entire segmentation networks can achieve better results than UNETR or Swin-UNETR
                             under self-supervised pre-training. This indicates that self-supervised pre-training further
                             enhances the ability of these models to extract seismic fault features. Despite this, we
                             observe that after self-supervised pre-training, the performance improvement of UNETR
                             is different than expected. This may be because, compared to CNN, the Transformer
                             architecture requires more training samples to achieve optimal performance. Although we
                             provided a large number of unsupervised data, the fault annotation data in the Thebe
                             dataset still needs to be improved for the standard version of the Transformer. Relative to
                             this, the Swin-Transformer structure with fewer parameters is more suitable for this task.
                                   We improved the multi-task self-supervised pre-training method proposed by Tang et al.
                             for Swin-UNETR in the field of medical imaging [38]. The previously designed tasks
                             (masked volume inpainting, image rotation, and contrastive coding) have limited pre-
                             training effects on seismic data, as shown in the 12th row of Table 2. Although these
                             multi-task self-supervised pre-training tasks have a role in improving model performance,
                             they are not as effective as the SimMIM method in seismic fault recognition tasks. Likewise,
                             the effect of SimMIM is superior to MAE and SimCLR, indicating that the simple SimMIM
                             is more suitable for fault recognition tasks. The original three-task-pre-trained task of
                             Swin-UNETR may increase the complexity and difficulty of model training. Contrastive
                             learning in SimCLR focuses more on global features, which may not be sufficient to capture
                             tiny changes in seismic data. MAE is more suitable for ViT structures. In comparison,
                             SimMIM, designed for Swin structures, provides a more straightforward and efficient
                             method, focusing on the most critical learning tasks. Predicting the masked part encourages
                             the model to pay attention to the subtle differences in the image, making it more effective
                             in seismic fault detection.
                                   Pre-training the entire segmentation network with SimMIM can yield the most signif-
                             icant improvements in downstream segmentation tasks. We attribute this phenomenon
                             to the fact that all network components gain substantial prior knowledge during the
                             pre-training stage and are not just limited to the Swin-Transformer backbone with fewer
                             parameters. However, this may also be due to the irrational design of Swin-UNETR, whose
                             backbone parameters are much smaller than those of the segmentation decoding head,
                             only one-eighth the size. The design goal of most self-supervised pre-training networks
                             is to make the backbone as complex and parameter-rich as possible, while smaller pa-
                             rameter networks usually handle downstream tasks. Nevertheless, pre-training the entire
                             segmentation network can significantly alleviate this problem. As shown in the lower
                             half of Table 2, both Swin-UNETR and FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, which incorporates the
                             multi-scale decoding and fusion module, have greatly improved performance because of
                             full-network pre-training.
                                   Ultimately, our FaultSeg Swin-UNETR model is optimized explicitly for seismic faults’
                             sparseness and slender characteristics. This model can restore the original fault structure
                             more accurately by introducing multi-scale decoding objectives and integrated fusion mod-
                             ules. We deeply analyze the design of FaultSeg Swin-UNETR to demonstrate its rationality.
                             Even without pre-training support, FaultSeg Swin-UNETR significantly outperforms the
                             standard Swin-UNETR in detection performance. This enhancement allows us to further
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                          15 of 25



                             improve the performance of models based on the Swin-UNETR structure, making it reach
                             the industry-leading level on the Thebe dataset.

                             Table 2. Performance on the Thebe dataset using OIS and ODS metrics, evaluating FaultSeg Swin-
                             UNETR multi-scale decoding and fusion module design and SimMIM pre-training strategy for the
                             entire segmentation network.

                                      Model                           Pre-Trained Method                     OIS    ODS
                                      UNet                                     -                            0.769   0.766
                                       HED                                     -                            0.811   0.806
                                       RCF                                     -                            0.806   0.800
                                    DeeplabM                                   -                            0.759   0.756
                                    DeeplabV3                        Imagenet-pre-trained                   0.849   0.845
                                   FaultSeg3D                                  -                            0.840   0.836
                                     UNETR                                     -                            0.845   0.841
                                     UNETR                                  SimCLR                          0.849   0.845
                                     UNETR                                    MAE                           0.847   0.844
                                     UNETR                                 SimMIM                           0.846   0.843
                                  Swin-UNETR                                   -                            0.844   0.840
                                  Swin-UNETR                         Three-task-pre-trained                 0.852   0.845
                                  Swin-UNETR                                SimCLR                          0.855   0.852
                                  Swin-UNETR                                  MAE                           0.859   0.857
                                  Swin-UNETR                               SimMIM                           0.861   0.857
                                  Swin-UNETR                           Overall SimMIM                       0.872   0.868
                              FaultSeg Swin-UNETR                              -                            0.851   0.847
                              FaultSeg Swin-UNETR                          SimMIM                           0.866   0.862
                              FaultSeg Swin-UNETR                      Overall SimMIM                       0.875   0.870


                             4.4. Ablation Study
                                   Although neural networks based on the Transformer model require a large number
                             of training data to achieve outstanding detection performance, we conducted fine-tuning
                             experiments on a small-scale synthesized dataset to demonstrate that self-supervised
                             pre-training can still achieve specific results under such stringent conditions. For our
                             experiments, we used a synthetic dataset of 220 samples of size 128 × 128 × 128, as used
                             by Wu et al. [21] in the FaultSeg3D model. We only used 200 samples to train the model,
                             and the model selection was based on the performance of 20 validation samples from the
                             synthetic dataset. After completing the fine-tuning, we directly evaluated the performance
                             of the trained model on the test set of Thebe using the OIS and ODS metrics (Table 3).
                             Because of the smaller scale and lower quality of the synthetic dataset compared to field
                             seismic data, the model’s performance showed a significant drop. However, compared to
                             the FaultSeg3D model, the Swin-UNETR model performed significantly better, and fur-
                             ther improvements can be achieved through the SimMIM self-supervised pre-training.
                             Similar to previous conclusions, using the FaultSeg Swin-UNETR model combined with
                             self-supervised pre-training yielded the best results. Moreover, the model could still achieve
                             acceptable predictive performance on a relatively more minor annotated dataset, which
                             indicates that our method can maintain decent performance in transferring between dif-
                             ferent work regions even with limited annotated data. This finding provides a baseline
                             data volume reference for new work regions with less data. In addition, it also suggests
                             our method provides an efficient pre-trained model. This pre-trained model offers an
                             optimal starting point for fault prediction in new work regions. This experiment also
                             significantly improves deep network performance by introducing large-scale annotated
                             data. Though the Thebe dataset is currently the most extensive earthquake fault annotation
                             dataset, it still needs more data compared to medical imaging to fully demonstrate the
                             advantages of deep models.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                             16 of 25



                             Table 3. Testing results on the Thebe dataset using our proposed method fine-tuned on a small
                             synthetic dataset.

                                              Model                             Pre-Trained Method             OIS     ODS
                                           FaultSeg3D                                    -                     0.441   0.431
                                          Swin-UNETR                           Three-task-pre-trained          0.482   0.473
                                          Swin-UNETR                                 SimMIM                    0.503   0.495
                                      FaultSeg Swin-UNETR                        Overall SimMIM                0.525   0.510


                                   Because of the sizeable seismic data volume, it is often necessary to divide it into blocks
                             for training data in the deep network. However, because of the limitation of GPU memory,
                             the size of the input data given to the segmentation network is only 128 × 128 × 128. We
                             used the sliding window method during prediction to infer the entire test data volume.
                             To improve the consistency between sliding windows, we usually chose half of the window
                             size as the sliding stride and took the average value of logits at the overlapping areas.
                             In our deep network setup, the window size was 128 × 128 × 128, and the sliding stride
                             was 64 × 64 × 64. However, the choice of block size during data partitioning was also worth
                             considering. Since random cropping during the training process can serve as a powerful
                             data augmentation technique and help the model learn fracture information at different
                             positions in the data volume, it was necessary to set the block size larger than the input size
                             that the network could accept. Therefore, we explored the block size of the data volume
                             based on the Swin-UNETR baseline model. From Table 4, it can be seen that if the block size
                             is set to 128 × 128 × 128, which means no random cropping during the training process,
                             the performance is the worst in terms of OIS and ODS indicators. As we gradually increase
                             the block size, both evaluation metrics significantly improve. However, the block size
                             should not be too large, as this can lead to a significant difference in the randomly cropped
                             128-sized inputs encountered by each epoch when fitting the same data block, making it
                             difficult for the network to converge. In this baseline model, we found that the OIS and
                             ODS scores were highest when the block size was 256. Therefore, we used this setting in all
                             experiments, as shown in Table 2.

                             Table 4. Comparison of different data chunking sizes.

                                     Model                 Chunk Size                  OIS                     ODS
                                                          128 × 128 × 128              0.830                   0.827
                                                          192 × 192 × 192              0.841                   0.835
                                  Swin-UNETR
                                                          256 × 256 × 256              0.844                   0.840
                                                          512 × 512 × 512              0.832                   0.829


                                    The proportion of positive samples in the fault labels is too low (Figure 5). Therefore,
                             it is easy to consider increasing the weight of positive samples in the BCE loss to enhance
                             the model’s ability to detect faults. However, adjusting the weight of positive samples
                             only changes the balance between precision and recall and does not significantly affect the
                             OIS and ODS, which are evaluated using the F1 score. This is also why we do not use the
                             average precision (AP) as an evaluation metric. We can increase the precision of the model
                             by adjusting the weight of positive samples in the BCE loss. However, this comes at the
                             cost of reducing recall. The experimental results in Table 5 also confirm our observation.
                             Therefore, we used the regular BCE loss without any special weighting for positive samples
                             in the remaining experiments.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                17 of 25



                             Table 5. The impact of BCE positive weight.

                                      Model               Positive Weight                OIS                      ODS
                                                                1.0                      0.844                    0.840
                                  Swin-UNETR                    5.0                      0.845                    0.839
                                                                10.0                     0.843                    0.841


                             5. Discussion
                                 This section presents test cases for the 2D slices and 3D cubes of the Thebe dataset.
                             The 2D showcase is shown in Figure 10, and the 3D showcase is shown in Figure 11.




                             Figure 10. Comparison of different deep learning models on the Thebe test sets’ 0th, 100th, and 200th
                             crosslines. The first row represents expert annotations, followed by the second through fifth rows,
                             displaying the inferences from the models proposed by An et al. [23] for comparison. The sixth
                             and seventh rows present the visual probability maps predicted by Swin-UNETR and our FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR, respectively.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                              18 of 25




                             (a) seismic                                               (b) ground truth




                             (c) UNET prediction                                       (d) HED prediction




                             (e) RCF prediction                                        (f) DeeplabM prediction




                             (g) Swin-UNETR prediction                                 (h) FaultSeg Swin-UNETR prediction

                             Figure 11. The 3D images are 640 × 640 × 640 cubes extracted from the testing subset of the Thebe
                             dataset. We superimposed various deep learning models’ predictive probabilities onto profiles in
                             different directions, denoted as (c–h) for UNET, HED, RCF, DeeplabM, Swin-UNETR, and FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR, respectively. Notably, FaultSeg Swin-UNETR accurately delineated the majority of
                             fault lines.

                             5.1. Performance of 2D Slices
                                  We tested the performance of several fault recognition methods on parts of the Thebe
                             seismic data test set. Figure 10 displays the crossline of 0, 100, and 200 traces. The white lines
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                            19 of 25



                             in the first row represent the real faults of the strata on the seismic images as interpreted by
                             experts for comparison with the performance of each automatic fault recognition model. We
                             use fault likelihood to represent the prediction results of each model. The range of each pixel
                             in the figure is zero to one. Values close to one (red) represent a higher probability of faults,
                             and values close to zero (blue) represent a higher probability of non-faults. As expected,
                             as shown in the quantitative evaluation results in Table 2, compared to the prediction results
                             of the four models proposed by An et al. [23]—UNET (second row), HED (third row),
                             RCF (fourth row), DeeplabM (fifth row)—Swin-UNTER achieves significant performance
                             improvement, and our model achieves more accurate interpretations. Continuous fault
                             prediction for the Thebe dataset means better results [23]. Specifically, the four models
                             in Figure 10 (second through fifth rows) are susceptible to noise. In the probability map,
                             many minor points and line segments appear in the non-fault part and are misjudged as
                             faults, confirming the work [23], which said, “All four models struggle with the migration
                             noise within the deeper layers, which the models do not see during the training phase”.
                             In comparison, UNet and DeeplabM are more accessible to identify non-faults than HED
                             and RCF. At the same time, the HED and RCF models with weighted cross-entropy loss
                             functions pay more attention to the fault part, so it is easier to misjudge non-fault pixels as
                             faults. In particular, model RCF goes to the extreme of labeling non-fault pixels or noise as
                             faults. Additionally, when calculating OIS and ODS values, these four models only extract
                             the concentrated distribution of faults in the image. However, we lack prior knowledge of
                             the concentrated fault areas in practical applications. The significant misjudgment in non-
                             fault areas challenges the models when applied in real scenarios. Encouragingly, the Swin-
                             UNETR segmentation model shows good prediction performance. Its prediction outcomes
                             align more closely with expert interpretations than the previous four models, effectively
                             identifying noise and non-fault areas, indicating this model’s successful extraction of
                             noise and non-fault features. The model structure and self-supervised pre-training tasks
                             effectively improve the fault recognition capabilities. However, Swin-UNETR also has
                             some redundant false detections and artifacts, and some faults are disconnected. This is due
                             to the sparse and narrow earthquake faults, resulting in highly imbalanced data annotation.
                             Therefore, the FaultSeg Swin-UNETR we proposed solves this problem to a certain extent
                             through a multi-scale fusion decoder. As shown in the last row of Figure 10, our method is
                             improved based on Swin-UNETR. Most fault points have a very high probability (close to
                             one), the noise points are minimal, the predicted faults are complete, and they have more
                             excellent continuity and refinement, almost comparable to expert explanations.

                             5.2. Performance of 3D Volumes
                                  To further verify our model’s fault recognition performance on 3D seismic volumes,
                             we visualize the 3D inferences of Swin-UNETR, FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, and four other
                             fault recognition methods on the Thebe test set in Figure 11. Figure 11c–f display six fault
                             recognition probability maps computed by UNET, HED, RCF, DeeplabM, Swin-UNETR,
                             and our FaultSeg Swin-UNETR methods. Figure 11a exhibits the extracted seismic volume,
                             while the deep red annotations in Figure 11b represent seismic faults interpreted by experts.
                                  Consistent with the 2D scenario, FaultSeg Swin-UNETR performs best in calculation
                             accuracy, fault clarity, and completeness compared to the former four methods. It show-
                             cases more apparent fault characteristics and more continuous fault tracking in the 3D
                             visualization. To observe multiple sets of fault features in different directions distinctly, we
                             specifically visualize fault hard labels in Figure 12 using the following method:

                                                                 label[Ypred < 0.7] = 0
                                                                                                                          (9)
                                                                 label[Ypred ≥ 0.7] = 1

                             where Ypred is the model output score, i.e., the probability of that pixel point being predicted
                             as a fault. We regard voxels with a prediction probability greater than 0.7 as faults and the
                             others as non-faults. The faults obtained by the former four methods are noisier, with nu-
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                        20 of 25



                             merous misidentified non-fault regions, discontinuities at connection points, and a lack of
                             coherent structures within complex fault areas. However, our method provides clear and
                             accurate fault segmentation results with good continuity at the intersection of three faces,
                             aligning closely with real fault annotations. Dou et al. [43] explained that larger angles
                             between faults and slices lead to poorer predictive outcomes. The skewed distribution
                             of faults in the Thebe dataset poses substantial learning challenges for models and likely
                             contributes to misjudgments in the former four models. Our model adeptly extracts 3D fea-
                             tures, significantly enhancing predictive consistency. Compared to Swin-UNETR, FaultSeg
                             Swin-UNETR demonstrates finer fault segmentation results with fewer misidentified fault
                             points, indicating the effective enhancement of the model’s ability to characterize faults
                             through the multi-scale fusion module.




                              (a) seismic                         (b) ground truth




                              (c) UNET prediction                 (d) HED prediction




                              (e) RCF prediction                  (f) DeeplabM prediction
                             Figure 12. Cont.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                               21 of 25




                              (g) Swin-UNETR prediction              (h) FaultSeg Swin-UNETR prediction
                             Figure 12. Visualizations of the hard scores predicted by the six models on the Thebe dataset are
                             presented in a 3D cube. The deep red indicates that the probability of a pixel being predicted as a
                             fault is equal to or greater than 70%; otherwise, it is considered a non-fault.

                             6. Conclusions
                                  In our work, we explore the application of the most popular self-supervised pre-
                             training in seismic fault recognition in recent years.
                                  In summary, the contributions of this article are as follows:
                             •    Utilizing the 3D Swin-Transformer backbone network, we investigated diverse pre-
                                  training methods with a substantial volume of field 3D seismic data. The integration of
                                  SimMIM’s pre-training method with the enhanced Swin-UNETR model markedly im-
                                  proved performance. Consequently, we introduced FaultSeg Swin-UNETR, a method
                                  meticulously crafted for the unique characteristics of seismic data.
                             •    We improved the Swin-UNETR model structure to adapt to the sparse distribution
                                  of seismic fault data and the narrow line profile characteristics in the inline or cross-
                                  line directions, promoting multi-scale decoding and fusion, thereby making fault
                                  detection easier.
                             •    Furthermore, upon recognizing the significant imbalance in the number of parameters
                                  between the decoder and the backbone network in the Swin-UNETR model, we
                                  proposed a strategy for pre-training the complete segmentation model, which further
                                  improves fault detection accuracy.
                             •    In the end, our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performances on the Thebe
                                  dataset according to the standard metrics of the optimal image scale (OIS) and optimal
                                  dataset scale (ODS) metrics.
                             •    Our research significantly advances the precision and efficiency of seismic fault recog-
                                  nition, overcoming the constraints associated with reliance on annotated datasets. This
                                  breakthrough paves the way for developing more robust and generalizable models
                                  capable of addressing the inherent complexities of field seismic data.
                                  Our research robustly demonstrates the substantial potential of self-supervised learn-
                             ing in interpreting seismic data. Using self-supervised pre-training on extensive datasets,
                             we find that models can generalize and significantly enhance identification accuracy, even
                             when only a minimal number of labeled data are available in new work zones. This is
                             particularly valuable considering the often complex and costly nature of annotating seismic
                             datasets. The models can identify and segment faults, thus aiding geologists and engineers
                             in precisely understanding subsurface structures, which have potential application values
                             in earthquake risk assessment, research on seismic resilience of infrastructure and build-
                             ings [44,45], etc. However, our current focus has been mainly on fault recognition. Future
                             work can include a broader range of seismic image-to-image tasks, such as stratigraphic
                             layer segmentation. Implementing multi-objective training can improve the model’s feature
                             extraction and generalization capabilities.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                 22 of 25



                                  Furthermore, our validation work has been confined to the two publicly available
                             datasets we could access because of the scarcity of publicly available labeled datasets. Given
                             the opportunity, we would conduct extensive testing across various geological conditions.
                             In summary, seismic analysis needs a universally applicable pre-trained model akin to
                             ImageNet [46] in computer vision or the GPT [47] series in natural language processing.
                             In addition, there needs to be more high-quality, open-source, large-scale, and diverse
                             seismic datasets within the field. Given these challenges, it is imperative to forge a data-
                             driven, unified model akin to SAM [48]. A model fortified with semi-automated annotation
                             capabilities will significantly enlarge our fault dataset, propelling us toward creating a
                             universally applicable fault recognition AI.

                             Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.M. and Z.Z.; methodology, Z.Z. and R.C.; software, Z.Z.;
                             validation, Z.Z. and R.C.; formal analysis, R.C.; investigation, Z.Z. and R.C.; writing—original draft
                             preparation, Z.Z. and R.C.; writing—review and editing, J.M. and R.C.; visualization, Z.Z. and R.C.;
                             supervision, J.M.; project administration, J.M. All authors have read and agreed to the published
                             version of the manuscript.
                             Funding: This research was funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of
                             China under Grant 2022YFB2703002.
                             Data Availability Statement: In this study, the pre-training dataset cannot be disclosed because
                             of privacy constraints. Nevertheless, to ensure transparency and reproducibility, we have shared
                             the checkpoint of the pre-training network on private data. Experts can use this checkpoint to
                             replicate our methods. This selection serves the research objectives while minimizing potential
                             impacts on privacy. The Thebe datasets we used in this paper are available in Harvard Dataverse:
                             https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/YBYGBK (accessed
                             on 6 May 2023).
                             Acknowledgments: Supported by the High-performance Computing Platform of Peking Uni-
                             versity. Thanks for the private unlabeled seismic data provided by BGP Inc., China National
                             Petroleum Corporation.
                             Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

                             Appendix A
                                  Our study incorporates the Swin-Transformer encoder, a sophisticated feature extraction
                             network tailored for analyzing 3D data. This network processes three-dimensional seismic
                             data, denoted as S ∈ RH ×W ×D , where H, W, and D represent the dimensions of inline,
                             crossline, and timeline, respectively. The initial step involves a patch partitioning of the
                             input 3D seismic data into non-overlapping volumetric blocks, each of size 2 × 2 × 2. This
                             partitioning results in a total of H2 × W   D
                                                                     2 × 2 blocks, which are subsequently flattened and
                             mapped into a 48-dimensional embedding space through a linear projection layer, forming
                             the inputs for the Swin-Transformer.
                                  The architecture of the Swin-Transformer is divided into four distinct stages, each
                             meticulously designed to extract information from the 3D data volumes in a hierarchical
                             manner. Within each stage, a reduction of the spatial dimensions by half along each axis
                             leads to a significant decrease in the number of tokens, specifically to one-eighth of their
                             original count, while simultaneously doubling the channel count. This process is visually
                             represented in the left half of Figure 7, which annotates the dimensions of the feature
                             maps fed into each stage. Comprising Swin-Transformer blocks and a merging module,
                             each stage is pivotal in transforming the feature maps, with the merging module solely
                             responsible for all such deformations.
                                  The detailed structure of a Swin-Transformer block is showcased in the right half
                             of Figure 7, emphasizing the employment of two window-based self-attention mecha-
                             nisms: window multi-head self-attention (W-MSA) and shifted-window multi-head self-
                             attention (SW-MSA). These mechanisms are instrumental in calculating self-attention
                                                                                       ′  ′  ′   ′
                             scores among the input tokens. Considering sin ∈ R H ×W × D ×C as the input to a Swin-
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                            23 of 25



                                   Transformer block, where it is perceived as tokens of dimension C ′ arranged across a grid of
                                   H ′ × W ′ × D ′ , the forward pass through this module can be articulated through the follow-
                                   ing set of equations. It is noteworthy that the dimensions of the feature maps are preserved
                                   throughout this process:
                                                                    s′ = W-MSA(LN(sin )) + sin ,
                                                                      s′′ = MLP(LN(s′ )) + s′ ,
                                                                      s′′′ = SW-MSA(LN(s′′ )) + s′′ ,
                                                                      sout = MLP(LN(s′′′ )) + s′′′ .
                                   In this context, LN denotes the layer normalization layer, strategically placed before each
                                   sub-module within the network to address the internal covariate shift dilemma encoun-
                                   tered during training phases. The MLP, or multi-layer perceptron, along with W-MSA
                                   and SW-MSA, the dual window-based self-attention mechanisms devised for the Swin-
                                   Transformer, play crucial roles. These mechanisms partition the input tokens into groups
                                                                                                           ′   W′   D′
                                   confined by a predetermined window size of M × M × M, leading to H     M × M × M groups,
                                   within which self-attention scores are computed as follows:

                                                                                               QK T
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                Attention( Q, K, V ) = Softmax √      V
                                                                                                 dk

                                   Here, Q = W q s, K = W k s, and V = W v s represent the query, key, and value components
                                   within the self-attention framework, respectively, with dk reflecting their dimensionali-
                                   ties. The matrices W q , W k , and W v facilitate the transformation of the input s into Q,
                                   K, and V, respectivelyx. In the W-MSA approach, tokens are partitioned in a manner
                                   that allocates equal window sizes across the board. Conversely, the SW-MSA strategy
                                   involves segmenting the input tokens by offsetting the windows along the three spatial
                                   dimensions by M  2 each. Figure A1 shows the visual results of these two window par-
                                   titioning mechanisms. This partitioning scheme effectively balances the computational
                                   demands of the self-attention mechanism with the interactions among tokens across differ-
                                   ent window partitions, ensuring a harmonious integration of computational efficiency and
                                   inter-token dynamics.




                                   Figure A1. W-MHA and SW-MHA window partitioning mechanism.

References
1.    Alcalde, J.; Bond, C.E.; Johnson, G.; Kloppenburg, A.; Ferrer, O.; Bell, R.; Ayarza, P. Fault interpretation in seismic reflection data:
      An experiment analysing the impact of conceptual model anchoring and vertical exaggeration. Solid Earth 2019, 10, 1651–1662.
      [CrossRef]
2.    Bouvier, J.; Kaars-Sijpesteijn, C.; Kluesner, D.; Onyejekwe, C.; Van der Pal, R. Three-dimensional seismic interpretation and fault
      sealing investigations, Nun River Field, Nigeria. AAPG Bull. 1989, 73, 1397–1414.
3.    Wu, X.; Geng, Z.; Shi, Y.; Pham, N.; Fomel, S.; Caumon, G. Building realistic structure models to train convolutional neural
      networks for seismic structural interpretation. Geophysics 2020, 85, WA27–WA39. [CrossRef]
4.    Fossen, H. Structural Geology; Cambridge University Press: New York, NY, USA, 2010; pp. 205–207.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                               24 of 25



5.    Posamentier, H.W.; Davies, R.J.; Cartwright, J.A.; Wood, L. Seismic Geomorphology—An Overview; Special Publications; Geological
      Society: London, UK, 2007.
6.    Knipe, R.J.; Jones, G.; Fisher, Q. Faulting, Fault Sealing and Fluid Flow in Hydrocarbon Reservoirs: An Introduction; Special Publications;
      Geological Society: London, UK, 1998.
7.    Ottesen Ellevset, S.; Knipe, R.; Svava Olsen, T.; Fisher, Q.; Jones, G. Fault Controlled Communication in the Sleipner Vest Field,
      Norwegian Continental Shelf: Detailed, Quantitative Input for Reservoir Simulation and Well Planning; Special Publications; Geological
      Society: London, UK, 1998; Volume 147. pp. 283–297.
8.    Richards, F.L.; Richardson, N.J.; Bond, C.E.; Cowgill, M. Interpretational Variability of Structural Traps: Implications for Exploration
      Risk and Volume Uncertainty; Geological Society: London, UK, 2015; Volume 421, pp. 7–27.
9.    Hale, D. Fault surfaces and fault throws from 3D seismic images. In Proceedings of the 2012 SEG Annual Meeting, Las Vegas,
      NV, USA, 4–9 November 2012.
10.   Stark, T.J. Unwrapping instantaneous phase to generate a relative geologic time volume. In Proceedings of the 2003 SEG Annual
      Meeting, Dallas, TX, USA, 26–31 October 2003.
11.   Wu, X.; Zhong, G. Generating a relative geologic time volume by 3D graph-cut phase unwrapping method with horizon and
      unconformity constraints. Geophysics 2012, 77, O21–O34. [CrossRef]
12.   Silva, C.C.; Marcolino, C.S.; Lima, F.D. Automatic fault extraction using ant tracking algorithm in the Marlim South Field,
      Campos Basin. In Proceedings of the 2005 SEG Annual Meeting, Houston, TX, USA, 6–11 November 2005.
13.   Pedersen, S.I.; Randen, T.; Sønneland, L.; Steen, Ø. Automatic fault extraction using artificial ants. In Proceedings of the 2002
      SEG Annual Meeting, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 6–9 October 2002.
14.   Figueiredo, A.M.; Gattass, M.; Szenberg, F. Seismic horizon mapping across faults with growing neural gas. In Proceedings of the
      10th International Congress of the Brazilian Geophysical Society, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 19–23 November 2007.
15.   Zinck, G.; Donias, M.; Daniel, J.; Guillon, S.; Lavialle, O. Fast seismic horizon reconstruction based on local dip transformation. J.
      Appl. Geophys. 2013, 96, 11–18. [CrossRef]
16.   Wang, Z.; AlRegib, G. Automatic fault surface detection by using 3D Hough transform. In Proceedings of the 2014 SEG Annual
      Meeting, Denver, CO, USA, 26–31 October 2014.
17.   Bishop, C.M.; Nasrabadi, N.M. Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning; Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2006; Volume 4.
18.   Kortström, J.; Uski, M.; Tiira, T. Automatic classification of seismic events within a regional seismograph network. Comput.
      Geosci. 2016, 87, 22–30. [CrossRef]
19.   Guitton, A.; Wang, H.; Trainor-Guitton, W. Statistical imaging of faults in 3D seismic volumes using a machine learning approach.
      In SEG Technical Program Expanded Abstracts 2017; Society of Exploration Geophysicists: Houston, TX, USA, 2017; pp. 2045–2049.
20.   Zhao, T.; Mukhopadhyay, P. A fault detection workflow using deep learning and image processing. In Proceedings of the 2018
      SEG International Exposition and Annual Meeting, Anaheim, CA, USA, 14–19 October 2018.
21.   Wu, X.; Shi, Y.; Fomel, S.; Liang, L. Convolutional neural networks for fault interpretation in seismic images. In Proceedings of
      the 2018 SEG International Exposition and Annual Meeting, Anaheim, CA, USA, 14–19 October 2018.
22.   Wu, X.; Liang, L.; Shi, Y.; Fomel, S. FaultSeg3D: Using synthetic data sets to train an end-to-end convolutional neural network for
      3D seismic fault segmentation. Geophysics 2019, 84, IM35–IM45. [CrossRef]
23.   An, Y.; Guo, J.; Ye, Q.; Childs, C.; Walsh, J.; Dong, R. Deep convolutional neural network for automatic fault recognition from 3D
      seismic datasets. Comput. Geosci. 2021, 153, 104776. [CrossRef]
24.   Vaswani, A.; Shazeer, N.; Parmar, N.; Uszkoreit, J.; Jones, L.; Gomez, A.N.; Kaiser, Ł.; Polosukhin, I. Attention is all you need. In
      Proceedings of the 31st Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017), Long Beach, CA, USA, 4–9 December
      2017; Volume 30.
25.   Dosovitskiy, A.; Beyer, L.; Kolesnikov, A.; Weissenborn, D.; Zhai, X.; Unterthiner, T.; Dehghani, M.; Minderer, M.; Heigold, G.;
      Gelly, S.; et al. An image is worth 16 × 16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2010.11929.
26.   Liu, Z.; Lin, Y.; Cao, Y.; Hu, H.; Wei, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Lin, S.; Guo, B. Swin transformer: Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted
      windows. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, Montreal, BC, Canada, 11–17 October
      2021; pp. 10012–10022.
27.   He, K.; Chen, X.; Xie, S.; Li, Y.; Dollár, P.; Girshick, R. Masked autoencoders are scalable vision learners. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, New Orleans, LA, USA, 18–24 June 2022; pp. 16000–16009.
28.   Xie, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Cao, Y.; Lin, Y.; Bao, J.; Yao, Z.; Dai, Q.; Hu, H. Simmim: A simple framework for masked image modeling. In
      Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, New Orleans, LA, USA, 18–24 June 2022;
      pp. 9653–9663.
29.   Chen, T.; Kornblith, S.; Norouzi, M.; Hinton, G. A simple framework for contrastive learning of visual representations. PMLR
      2020, 119, 1597–1607.
30.   Liu, B.; Jiang, P.; Wang, Q.; Ren, Y.; Yang, S.; Cohn, A.G. Physics-driven self-supervised learning system for seismic velocity
      inversion. Geophysics 2023, 88, R145–R161. [CrossRef]
31.   Monteiro, B.A.; Oliveira, H.; dos Santos, J.A. Self-Supervised Learning for Seismic Image Segmentation From Few-Labeled
      Samples. IEEE Geosci. Remote Sens. Lett. 2022, 19, 8028805. [CrossRef]
32.   Xu, Z.; Luo, Y.; Wu, B.; Meng, D.; Chen, Y. Deep Nonlocal Regularizer: A Self-Supervised Learning Method for 3D Seismic
      Denoising. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote. Sens. 2023, 61, 5921517. [CrossRef]
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 922                                                                                                            25 of 25



33.   Yang, J.; Wu, X.; Bi, Z.; Geng, Z. A multi-task learning method for relative geologic time, horizons, and faults with prior
      information and transformer. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote. Sens. 2023, 61, 5907720. [CrossRef]
34.   Tang, Z.; Wu, B.; Wu, W.; Ma, D. Fault Detection via 2.5 D Transformer U-Net with Seismic Data Pre-Processing. Remote Sens.
      2023, 15, 1039. [CrossRef]
35.   Silva, R.M.; Baroni, L.; Ferreira, R.S.; Civitarese, D.; Szwarcman, D.; Brazil, E.V. Netherlands dataset: A new public dataset for
      machine learning in seismic interpretation. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1904.00770.
36.   Wang, Z.; You, J.; Liu, W.; Wang, X. Transformer assisted dual U-net for seismic fault detection. Front. Earth Sci. 2023, 11, 1047626.
      [CrossRef]
37.   Dou, Y.; Dong, M.; Li, K.; Xiao, Y. FaultSSL: Seismic Fault Detection via Semi-supervised learning. arXiv 2023, arXiv:2309.02930.
38.   Tang, Y.; Yang, D.; Li, W.; Roth, H.R.; Landman, B.; Xu, D.; Nath, V.; Hatamizadeh, A. Self-supervised pre-training of swin
      transformers for 3d medical image analysis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
      Recognition, New Orleans, LA, USA, 18–24 June 2022; pp. 20730–20740.
39.   An, Y.; Du, H.; Ma, S.; Niu, Y.; Liu, D.; Wang, J.; Du, Y.; Childs, C.; Walsh, J.; Dong, R. Current state and future directions for deep
      learning based automatic seismic fault interpretation: A systematic review. Earth-Sci. Rev. 2023, 243, 104509. [CrossRef]
40.   An, Y.; Guo, J.; Ye, Q.; Childs, C.; Walsh, J.; Dong, R. A gigabyte interpreted seismic dataset for automatic fault recognition. Data
      Brief 2021, 37, 107219. [CrossRef]
41.   Hatamizadeh, A.; Tang, Y.; Nath, V.; Yang, D.; Myronenko, A.; Landman, B.; Roth, H.R.; Xu, D. Unetr: Transformers for 3d
      medical image segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, New
      Orleans, LA, USA, 18–24 June 2022; pp. 574–584.
42.   An, Y.; Dong, R. Understanding the Effect of Different Prior Knowledge on CNN Fault Interpreter. IEEE Access 2023, 11, 15058–
      15068. [CrossRef]
43.   Dou, Y.; Li, K.; Zhu, J.; Li, T.; Tan, S.; Huang, Z. MD loss: Efficient training of 3-D seismic fault segmentation network under
      sparse labels by weakening anomaly annotation. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 2022, 60, 5919014. [CrossRef]
44.   Kourehpaz, P.; Molina Hutt, C. Machine learning for enhanced regional seismic risk assessments. J. Struct. Eng. 2022,
      148, 04022126. [CrossRef]
45.   Forcellini, D. An expeditious framework for assessing the seismic resilience (SR) of structural configurations. Structures 2023, 56,
      105015. [CrossRef]
46.   Deng, J.; Dong, W.; Socher, R.; Li, L.J.; Li, K.; Fei-Fei, L. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In Proceedings of
      the 2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Miami, FL, USA, 20–25 June 2009; pp. 248–255.
47.   Floridi, L.; Chiriatti, M. GPT-3: Its nature, scope, limits, and consequences. Minds Mach. 2020, 30, 681–694. [CrossRef]
48.   Kirillov, A.; Mintun, E.; Ravi, N.; Mao, H.; Rolland, C.; Gustafson, L.; Xiao, T.; Whitehead, S.; Berg, A.C.; Lo, W.Y.; et al. Segment
      anything. arXiv 2023, arXiv:2304.02643.

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
